Good morning, Chair South. We're of the health committee.
You'll see members around the table.
Welcome to the Health Select Committee.
It's good to have you here and appreciate you making the journey down.
I assume you come down from Palmerston North-
I did
... for this.
Well done.
Well, good to have you and your
support-
Husband
... husband at the back. Kia ora.
You were here for five minutes, so I will hand that time over to you now.
If you want to
leave us time for questions at the end, you may, if you just want to talk through
your experience, then that's up to you as well. Thank you.
I've had a
total knee replacement.
I went to my doctors. They thought that I had an infection in my
knee. Now, if I had, it would've been a five-hour surgery
to have it replaced, four months of antibiotics, and another five-hour
surgery.
For 11 hours, I sat in A&E. It
wasn't just me. The A&E was absolutely
chocker.
The nurses at the nurses station were talking about one of the
nurses that was pregnant because that was more important, or talking about their
weekend, instead of coming out, seeing patients
in the waiting room to see, one, if they needed anything, if they
needed pain relief.
After eight hours, I had to actually physically go and
ask for it.
Now, I've just read that A&E in Palmerston
North
have just put aside $25 million to
upgrade the A&E.
During the day, there's enough staff.
At night,
you have got maybe two, three doctors
running A&E, but also going through to pediatric,
because we've now got a new pediatric unit.
As far as I'm concerned, that's not good enough.
There are patients sitting in the waiting room that have come in by an
ambulance, and they're in their 80s having trouble
breathing.
Something has to be done.
It's atrocious.
But yet my husband,
if he has an attack, he's seen fine.
I have no problems with the A&E, but
something needs to be done about the staffing
at night.
The nurses are fine, but they're run off their feet.
It's got to be sorted. It's just so
bad in Palmy. And it's everywhere.
It's not just Palmy, it's everywhere.
That's all I have to say.
Thank you for-
Thank you
... making the effort to come down here and share your experience.
Thank you.
Dr. Vera.
I get letters from graduate nurses trained throughout the
country, and they can't get jobs in their local hospital.
Mm.
Do you think if we employed more of the graduate nurses in the emergency
department-
I do
... it would help patients be seen on time?
I do.
It's the nurses.
You've got one nurse treating about three or four
patients, then having to run back because a doctor can't do
something.
Our nurses at the moment are doing doctors'
jobs instead of doing nursing.
We need more nurses. We need more doctors.
Instead of them going overseas, they need to be
here.
No, we note that point, and the government
does note that point-
Mm
... and has made efforts to hire a number more nurses
and doctors.
Mm.
Look, that doesn't change your experience, and I just want to
recognize that, and
that's very valuable that you've come down here and shared that with us here in
Parliament.
Mm.
And we will make sure we pass that on to our colleagues.
Yeah. At the moment, I've got what they call...
I've had a
repositioning of my ulnar nerve.
Now, at the moment, I can't use my right arm because it's playing up.
I won't go to the hospital. I'd sooner sit at home in pain
than sit there for 12, 13 hours.
Yeah. I just want to also make a mention about, and I'm sure everyone would agree
here, that our health
screw, the workers, do a fantastic job.
Mm. They do.
Our doctors and nurses. And when you run to the hospital, and you're
being seen in that acute care-
Mm
... that they do a fantastic job and-
Oh, yeah, they do
... we're incredibly blessed to have
them looking after us.
Mm. Yeah.
And we've all got our own personal experiences-
Yeah
... with family in there. And so if they're listening, just thank you
very much, New Zealand Health workforce.
Thank you.
And thank you as well for coming down here today.
Thank you very much.
I'm really sorry about your knee.
So have a nice morning, and a safe travel back.
Thank you for listening to me.
No. Thanks for sharing your experience